
1)diff between delete and truncate statement ?
->delete command: 
  delete command   is used to delete a row in a table.
  you can rollback the data after delete statement.
  It is DML command.
  It is slower than truncate.
  DELETE FROM table_name WHERE condition;
  
  truncate command:
  truncate  commmand  is used to delete all the row in the table.
  truncate command will delete all the rows in one go.
  you cannot rollback the data after truncate.
  It is a DDL Command.
  It is a faster than delete command.
  TRUNCATE TABLE tablename;

2) what are the different subsets of SQL?
   DDL->Data definition language. It is used  to define database schema. create,alter ,drop ,truncate.
   DML-Data manupilation language . It manupilates the data in the database. insert,update,delete.
   DCL->Data constrol language. This commands deals with the rightd,permission and other control.Grant,revoke.
   Tcl->Transaction control language. Includes commands which mainly deals with transaction of the database. commit,rollback,savepoint
   
3what is Data Management System ? what are its different types ?
 ->Database Management Systems (DBMS) are software systems used to store, retrieve, and run queries on data. A DBMS serves as an interface between an end-user 
   and a database. The data can be mdified and it can be any kind  of data example strings,numbers,images ect.
  types of dbms are  : 
1)hierarchical = it consiste of predecessor and successor types of a relationship.it has a structure like a tree.
2)Relationa: This type of database consist uses a structure  that allows to user to identify access data in databse.
3)newwork :newwork database management  system supports many to many relations where multiple  records can be linked.
4)Object oriented: Object oriented database management system uses small indivual softwares called objects . and each objects contains data and instructions 
for the actions to be  done with the data. 

  
  
  
  4)what do you mean by table and field in a sql ?
  -> a tables refers to a  collection of data in organized manner in forms of rows and columns. and field represents number of column in the tables.
  
    
   5)what are joins in sql ?
   refer = https://www.google.com/search?q=natural+join&pws=0&gl=us&sxsrf=ALiCzsYxyHGCpLfAibm42NYjkHi54c4PCQ:1663508939157&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjLr5jbvZ76AhVU23MBHYJoDl0Q_AUoAXoECAEQAw&biw=1366&bih=625&dpr=1#imgrc=iZ_gNLFC2b4AVM
      join is always = cross product + some condition.
   ->join clause is used to define to combine rows from two or more tables based on related columns between them.
    It is used to merge two tables or retieve data from there.
    a)natural join = when you want to equalize common attributes of in that case we use natural join. example eid in emp table and eid in dept table.
    b)inner join = reutrn the those records which have matching values in both table.
    c)LeftOuter join = It gives matching rows and the rows which are in left table but not in right table.
    d)rightOuter join = It gives matching rows and the rows which are in right table but not in left table.
     
    
 6)char and varchar?
 ->char stores character datatype.eg.'c'
 varchar can store string datatype. eg."234aksc"
    
    
7)what is primary key ?
-> A set  of attributes that can be used to uniquely identify every tuple is a primary key.
   
8)contraints ?
 ->SQL constraints are used to specify rules for the data in a table. Constraints are used to limit the type of data that can go into a table
 not null = ensures that null value cannot be stored in the table.
 unique = makes sure that all vallues in the table should be  unique.
 check = ensures that all values in a column satisfy a specific condition eg we dont want negative numbers in the table we apply check constraint. eg. in sal check sal<1
 default= constrains defines a set of default values for column when no value is specified. eg sal float(20) default 10000
 Primary key =
   
 9)Which is better MYSQL or SQL?
 SQL  works on relational data.->tabular data
 MYSQL works on relational data.
 In terms of data security, the SQL server is much more secure than the MySQL server. In SQL, external processes (like third-party apps) 
 cannot access or manipulate the data directly. While in MySQL, one can easily manipulate or modify the database files during run time using binaries
 
10)what is unique key  and primary key diff ?
unique key
  unique key identifies a single row in a table. 
  unique key can be many in one table. 
  null values are allowed 
  dublicate values are not allowed.
   
primary key :
  primary key can identifies a single row in a table.
  unique key can be only one in one  table.
  Dont allow null values.
  dublicate values are not allowed.
      
 1!)what is foreign key ?
 -> foreign key maintains the referencial integrity by enforcing a link between data in two tables.
      fooreign key in child table references the primary key in the parent table.
 
 12)what is data intigrity ?
 -> defines the accuracy of data , consistency of data stored in databasse. it also defines the integrity constraints to enforce nusiness rule on data. 
   in short data integrity defines the accuracy and data consistancy of a data.
      
 13)what is the cluster and non cluster index in sql?
    -> 
      cluster index is used for easy retrieval of data from the database and it is faster.
      non - cluster index is used for easy retrieval of data from the database and it is slower.
      one table can have only one cluser index.
      one table can have many one non - cluser index.
   
14)write a query to display the current date?
        select getdate();

15)what is denormalization ?
  ->increases th performance of entire infrastructure as it inr=troduce redundancy into a table.
  adds retundatnt data into table by incoporating database queries and combine data from various tables into single table.
  
16)what are entities and relationships ?
->A person,place or thing in the real world about data can be stored in a database. Tables stores data that represents one type of entity.
relationships  or links between entities that have something  to do with each other.  

17)what is an index ? 
 ->index basically refers to performance tuning method.
  It allows faster retrieval of records from the table and creates an entry for each value.
  creating indexes :
  CREATE INDEX index_name
  ON table_name (column1, column2, ...);
  
  create unique index 
  CREATE UNIQUE INDEX index_name
  ON table_name (column1, column2, ...);
  
  we can also drop the indexes.
  DROP INDEX index_name ON table_name;
 
18)Explain diff types of index?
  index table we use when we have huge tables. to ease retrieval data we uses indexes.
  Unique index : Unique index is mainly used when you do not want any dublicate values to be present in the column.
  Cluster index : This index reorders the physical order of the table and searches based on the key values. each table can obly have one cluster index.
  Non clusterindex :  Non cluster index does not alter the physical order of the table and maintains the logical order of the table each table can have many non-cluster index.
    
19)what is normalization ?
    normalization is the process of organizing data to avoid dublication and retundancy.

20)diff betwn drop and truncate ?
    
   Drop :
    removes a table and it cannot be rolledback from the database. it drops the data in the table  as well as structure of table.
    DDL command
    Syntax : drop table tablename;
      
  Truncate :
  removes all rows and it cannot be rolledback from the database. 
   DDL command
   syntax :
   truncate tablename;


21)diff types of normalization.
  ->
  1)In 1NF we remove the multivalues attribute.Data must be atomic.
  2)In 2nf :  To be in second normal form, a relation must be in first normal form and relation must not contain any partial dependency. 
    A relation is in 2NF if it has No Partial Dependency, i.e., no non-prime attribute  is dependent on any proper subset of any candidate key of the table.
  3)3nf :A relation is in third normal form, if there is no transitive dependency for non-prime attributes as well as it is in second normal form.
    A relation is in 3NF if at least one of the following condition holds in every non-trivial function dependency X –> Y:
    If A->B and B->C are two FDs then A->C is called transitive dependency.
      
 22)Acid properties ?
  use link ->    https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/acid-properties-in-dbms/
  Atomicity =  Either or all changes are performed or none of them (either or all)
  Consistancy = Data is in consistant state when transaction starts and when it ends.
  Isolation = Transaction run concurently appear to serialize.
  Durability =  After transaction successfully completes changes to data ppersists and are not undone wvwn in the event of a system failure.
  
  23)what is trigger,cursor ,functions ,views?
    do it from notebook.
      
  24)what are aggregate functions in sql ?
       MIN, MAX, COUNT, SUM, and AVG.
      
  25)what are the different operators avialable in SQL ?
    ->Arithmatic operators , bitwise operators , comparison operators, compound operators , Logical operators.
      
  26)Are NULL values same as that of zero or a  blank space ?
    ->NULL values represents a value which is unavailable,unknown , assigned or not applicable where as zero is a number and blank space is character.
  
   27)cross join and natural join difference ?
    ->
      cross join -> produces the cross product or cartesian product of two tables.
      natural join ->Based on all columns having same name and data types in both the tables.
      
    28)what is subquery in sql ?
      subquery is query inside another qiuery is called as subquery.
      there are two types of subquery 
      corrlated subquery and non-corrlated subquery.
      
      
     29)can u list the ways to get the count of records in a table?
      -> select * from table1;
        select count(*) from table1;
    
    30)write a sql query to find the names of employees that begin with 'A' ?
       select * from emp where ename like "A%";
    
    31)what is the need for group function in sql ? 
      avg,count,max,min,sum,variance are group functions.
      group functions need is group functions works on set of row and return one result per group.
      
     32)What is relationship and diff types ?
      ->Relations are entities that have something to do with each  other .
        Relationships are defined as connection between 2 tables in a database .
        Types of relationship 
        1)one to one :  One family lives in one house, and the house contains one family.
        2)one to many : 1 dept have many emp.
        3)Many to one : Many studets have one classroom.
        4)Many to Many : Many emp have many department.
          
     
    33)what is main difference bewn 'between' and 'in' operator ?
    ->between = used to display rows based on a range of values in a row.
          select * from emp where salary between 10000 and 30000.
    ->in : used to check for values contained in a specific set of values 
           select * from student where rollno in (2,12,20);
    
    34)what are clauses in sql ?
       select
       where
       group by
       having = mostly used with group  by clause
       from 
       order by
       group by 
       limit 
       top

35)having clause and where clause diff ?
   having clause:
   can be usef with select statement. it is moslty used in group by clause.
   where clause:
   where clause is applied to each row brfore they are part of the GROUP BY function in a query.
    
     
36)List the ways in which dynamic SQl can be executed ?
    ->1)Usig exec 2)write a  querry with parameter 3)using sp_executesql
   
37)what are the various levels of constraints ?
->column level constraints. 
  table level constraints.

38)List some case manupilation function in SQl ?
 ->LOWER = functions returns a string in lower case.
   UPPER = functions returns a string in upper case.
   INITCAP = functions returns the string with the first letter in uppercase.
     
 39)what are the different set operators in SQL ?
-> UNION = selects the all the tuples from the realations A and B and removes dublicate.
   INTERSECT = selects the common tuples from the two relations.
   MINUS  or set difference A-B = removes the common tuples from relation. relation containing those tuples in in A but not in B.
   UNION ALL = selects all tuple from relations A and B and doesnt remove dublicate tuples. 
     
   40)what are aggregate functions?
  -> aggregate functions are used to evaluate mathematical calculations and returns a single value. 
    value.These calculations are done from the columns in a table.
    max(),count(),min(),max(),avg(),sum()
    scaler functions: scaler functions return a single value based on the input value.
    UCASE(),NOW()
       
   41)how can you fetch a alternate records from a table ?
       for even
      -> select sid from (select rowno, sid form student )where mod(rowno,2)=0;
        for odd 
       select sid from (select rowno,sid from student) where mod(rowno,2)=1;
   42)Name  the operator which is used in the query for pattern matching ?
      a)% = it matches zero or more character.
     ->select * from student where sname like "a%";
      b)_ = matches exactly one character.
     ->select * from student where sname like "piyush_";
   
    43)how can you fetch firsr 5 characters of the string ?
     ->select substring(studentname,1,5) from student;

    44)
      SQL=  It is a query language that allows you to issue a single query or execute  a single INSERT/UPDATE/DELETE.
      PLSQL = is Oracle "Procedural language" SQL which allows you to write full program (loops,variable etc)to accomplish multiple operations INSERT/UPDATE/DELETE.
      
    45)what are views ?
    ->A view is a virtual table which consist of a subset of data contained in a table .
      views stores the result set of a query.
      some views are updatable.
      CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW V1 AS SELECT * FROM STUDENT ;
      SELECT V1;

    46)what is auto increament in sql ?
     ->auto increament allows user to create a unique number to get generated whenever a new record is inserted into the table.
      this keyword is usually requred whenever primary key is used.
     
      
    47)what is data warehouseing ?
      A data warehouse refers a central repository of data where the data is assembled from multiple source information.
      
    48)difference in dbms and rdbms ?
      dbms = in dbms we can store  document type database,key-value pair database,graph database, relational database(rows and columns).
      rdbms = if we store database in a relational form or tabular form then it is rdbms.
        
    49)pattern matching 
    where name like 'a%'; start from a 
    where name like '%a'; end from a
    where name like '%a%';  
    where name like '_a%'; second letter must be a
    where name like 'a_%';last letter must be a
      
    50)second highest salary
    first way.
    select name,max(salary) from emp where salary < (select max(salary) from emp));
    second way.
    select name,max(salary) from emp where salary <> (select max(salary) from emp);

  51)varchar and varchar2 difference ?
     varchar is ANSI standerd and varchar2 is Oracle standered.
  
    
   52)Triggers 
   trigger is a special type of stored procedure that automatically runs when an event occurs in database server. 


  53)what is different levels of abstraction ?
    physical level = it is the first level which describes the how the data is stored
    logical level = this describes what data is stored in the database and and what is the relation betwn data points
    view level = it descibes only a part of a entire database
   
   54)ALl keys :
    composite key is a combination of two more columns two identify each tuple uniquely.
    candidate key is a set of attributes which can uniquely identify a tuple
    primary key = an attribute which has unique records is called primary key
    super key is set of attribute which can identify every tuple.
    uniqe key is a same as a primary key but unique allows null values
    
55)one tier,  two tier and three tier architectures.
      A single-tier architecture is an architecture in which the entire application resides on the user's machine.
      in two tiers client direclty communicate with database
      in three tier architecture application is the extra layer
      in three tier architecture client communicates with an application to make the system more secure and accisible

56))what is hash join and merge join ?
      hash join is used when  you have to join large tables.
      merge join is used  when projections of the joined tables are sorted on join columns.
      
      
57)what is data indipendennce ?
      data independence =  we make data independent from user . part of here data abstraction comes here . the main purpose of user is to access the data stored 
      in database. the data should be available 24 hr , I sca access data from any place, any time this is demand of user.  we hide all the details of data like 
      which indexes we have used , what are the primary key, foreign keys used in the database all details hide from user. logical view = the logical structure we 
      have used in the database eg tables, no of tables, names of tables , structure of tables, relationship betn tables   we hide this in logical view  and in 
      physical schema = how the data actually stored we hide from the user.
      it imples that application is indipendent of the storage structure and data access strategies of data.

58)What is Normalization and what are different types of Normalization?
The process of organizing data to avoid duplication and redundancy is known as Normalization.
First Normal Form (1NF) :- A relation is 1NF if it contains atomic values or singled valued attributes
Second Normal Form(2NF) :- A relation will be 2NF, if it is 1NF and if all non-prime attributes are fully functional dependent on the primary key
                           In simpler words, if all the non-prime attributes are dependent only on a primary key then it is said to be in no partial
                           dependency
Third Normal Form(3NF) :- A relation in in 3Nf, it is in 2NF and if there is no transitive dependency for non prime attributes 
Boyce-Codd Normal Form (BCNF) :- If for every functional dependency LHS is super key.
      

59)SDLC (System developement life cycle) 
->
Planning phase : (we gather all the requiremnent)
The prime focus of this phase is to gather the essential requirements from the customer. This information gets collected by the business analyst from their 
target customer(s) and plans the BRS (Business requirement Specification) for the development of the product. The team of all the designers and BA will do 
brainstorming to extract all the requirements and plan accordingly for the new system to be developed? Some popular questions that this meeting picks up are - 
Who will use the product? What must be the output data by the product?

Defining /Analysis phase :
When the BRS documentation is done, there are another set of employees like Human Resource (HR), Finance Analyst, Architect, 
a Business analyst as well as Project manager will sit jointly discuss as well as analyze how to proceed and whether it is feasible and possible in the allotted budget
Such decisions are taken depending on the cost, resources, time, etc. Documentation is made, which is the SRS (Software Requirement Specification) document, which 
contains a detailed explanation of product requirements, right from design to development.

Designing: (main part here we give documentation to the customer)
no major role of the customer here .
here client check for the project modules , their relationship, ERD ,DFD.
Designing phase also thinks how frint end should be of, how it should be get designed etc.
In this phase, the requirement gathered in the SRS document is used as an input and software architecture that is used for
implementing system development is derived.


coding :
all this frontend ,erd ,dfd all these work will have to be implemented . in coding phase we implement what we have designed..
which language we have to use in the front end , backend 

Testing :
Testing starts once the coding is complete and the modules are released for testing. In this phase, the developed software is tested thoroughly and any 
defects found are assigned to developers to get them fixed.
Retesting, regression testing is done until the point at which the software is as per the customer’s expectation. Testers refer SRS document to make sure 
that the software is as per the customer’s standa

Maintainance : (technical support )
After the deployment of a product on the production environment, maintenance of the product i.e. if any issue comes up and needs to be fixed or 
any enhancement is to be done is taken care by the developers


60)waterfall model 
First, Requirement gathering and analysis is done. Once the requirement is freeze then only the System Design can start. Herein, the SRS document created is the output for the Requirement phase and it acts as an input for the System Design.
In System Design Software architecture and Design, documents which act as an input for the next phase are created i.e. Implementation and coding.
In the Implementation phase, coding is done and the software developed is the input for the next phase i.e. testing.
In the testing phase, the developed code is tested thoroughly to detect the defects in the software. Defects are logged into the defect tracking tool and are retested once fixed. Bug logging, Retest, Regression testing goes on until the time the software is in go-live state.
In the Deployment phase, the developed code is moved into production after the sign off is given by the customer.
Any issues in the production environment are resolved by the developers which come under maintenance.


61)Differnece between UNION and UNION ALL.
UNION ALL keeps all of the records from each of the original data sets, UNION removes any duplicate records. UNION first performs a sorting operation 
and eliminates of the records that are duplicated across all columns before finally returning the combined data set.

62) 








